# Introducing Makefile


So welcome back guys now and this more day and we are all going to learn the purpose and how to write a makefile. So what exactly make wise is make is nothing but it is a program building tool which runs on Unix Linux and they're equal and flitters makefile AIDS in simplifying building a software program that may be  dependent on wiliest other libraries.

So let us try to understand this point with the help of an example. So for example suppose you have a software program and that software program is big enough that it consists of two hundred source file and two anti-hunger files. Now all of these 200 source wine and 20 header files you need to create certain dishes from the above raw material.
 
So let us call this as the raw material because you need to cook up this raw material to prepare certain set of dishes. Now what other dishes here dishes are nothing but the final product that you want to create out of the source files. So suppose that out of these 200 source file you need to create 10 static libraries five shared libraries and the executable. Right.And note that in the production code the size of the software program can as big as it may have thousands of source files and hundreds of defines. So the question is that how are you going to build such a huge software program which consists of so many source file and header files. So the answer is that you need to make use of make file. If you do not make use of Makefile in building such huge software programs then of course you will go mad if you compile each source file one by one.

In fact it is infeasible and not possible to do Samick file contains all the commands required to read all the dishes you need. And what other dishes here. The final product that you want to build. So these are dishes. So here dishes is an informal term that we are using to refer to the final product that you want to build. I have seen that 99 percent of the students never make use of make files in their academic tenure to build and compile their C or C++ programs and that is really something ready set. In fact unless you start looking for a company in the industry then only I have seen that is true Dern's and counter for the first time.

For the makefile So it is for this reason I have decided to include one more deal on make file itself so that you develop the habit off building your software programs using make files you will see that making use of make files in building your software program is a one time effort and it is very convenient that pays off running your software program grows in size. Now let us go through the functions of our Make find that is what is the purpose of make file. So the very first and the basic function of the makefile is the completion. So this involves the completion of source file to create the corresponding object files. The linking is also done using make files Makefile is also used to create the required libraries which could be a static or dynamic.

And of course Makefile is used to create the required executables. Makefile is also used for the installation of libraries and executables on your system. And of course Makefile is used to update the dependencies so you can see a diagram particularly here that Makefile is used to create libraries executables installation. Right. And of course the input to the makefile is the raw material where raw material means the source file and header files. And of course you may be provided with precompiled libraries and object files from third party libraries. So does pre-compiled libraries can also be created to make file in order to create your final products. So in order to learn how to write a Makefile rebuild to a short assignment. So as an exercise we will be developing a very small software package using a makefile.
